Below are the instructions for installing on Windows.

For Linux, you probably already have subversion in your distribution,
or you can install it (on Ubuntu: sudo apt install subversion).

For Mac, you can find some instructions online, for example here:

   http://www.wikihow.com/Install-Subversion-on-Mac-OS-X

For Mac/Linux, to check out a repository you use "svn co URL",
from a command terminal.  Adding files is with "svn add FILES"
and committing is with "svn commit -m 'put your message here' FILES".
Updating is with "svn up".

On Mac, if you are using svnX, there is a tutorial here:

   http://divvun.no/doc/tools/docu-svn-user-svnx.html

The instructions below are geared towards Windows users, but
Mac/Linux users should be able to follow along on their platforms.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
0. If you are on the CS lab machines (301 MacLean Hall) or another
   machine that already has TortoiseSVN, you can skip to step 3.

1. Download TortoiseSVN from http://tortoisesvn.net/downloads.html
   You should choose 32 bit or 64 bit based on the OS of your computer.
   Newer machines are probably 64 bit. 

2. When the download is complete, click on the .msi (installer) file
   that has been downloaded, and follow the instructions to complete
   the installation.

3. Now navigate to the directory where you want to put the class
   repository, using Windows Explorer.  I suggest your Documents
   directory (on the CS lab machines this is mapped to your h:
   drive and thus will be visible on any CS lab machine), but it
   is up to you.

4. Right-click on a blank space for that directory in Windows
   Explorer (the way you would to create a new folder).  Select
   "SVN Checkout...", and then enter the URL for the class repository,
   which is:

     https://svn.divms.uiowa.edu/repos/clc/class/3820-fall17

   You do not need to change any other options on that window;
   just click ok.  

5. You will be asked for a username and password.  Just enter
   "guest" for username and also "guest" for password (without
   the quotation marks, in both cases).

6. You should now see a window appear listing a bunch of files
   being checked out.  The title of the window will change to
   "Checkout Finished!" when this is all done.

7. The files from the repo are now available in the directory
   from which you started the svn checkout process.  They are
   in the 3820-fall17 folder.

8. From time to time, I will add new files to the repository.  To
   update your copy of the repository, just right-click on the
   3820-fall17 folder, and select "SVN Update...".  The username and
   password are "guest" again (same as for Step 5).  Unfortunately, it
   seems as though maybe TortoiseSVN does not remember the username
   and password, even if you click the box asking it to do so.

9. You have successfully downloaded the class repository.
    You should now also check out your own personal repository, where you 
    will upload your solutions to the homework.  We have created a
    personal repository for every student registered in the class
    as of August XXX, 2017.  If you joined the class after 
    that, email Prof. Stump to get yours.

10. Similarly to step 4 above, do an SVN Checkout of the following,
    where instead of the word HAWKID, you should put your actual HawkID.

      https://svn.divms.uiowa.edu/repos/clc/class/3820-fall17-submit/HAWKID

    For your username and password, for this directory (unlike the course
    directory), you need to use your HawkId and HawkId password.

11. To submit your solution to a homework assignment, you first must
    add each file to subversion, by right-clicking the file and
    selecting TortoiseSVN -> Add (on Mac/Linux in a command terminal,
    you do "svn add").  When all the files are added,  right-click the
    directory for that homework assignment, and select
    SVN Commit (on Mac/Linux: "svn commit -m 'YOUR-MESSAGE-GOES-HERE'").
    You can add a commit message (optional) about your
    commit, and then just click "Ok" to commit your changes.
    You can commit multiple times this way as needed, if you make
    changes to your solution.

    To check that your solution was really submitted, you can view your
    repository directory in a web browser.  Just go to the URL for
    your repository (the one shown in step 11 above) in a browser, and
    enter your HawkId and HawkId password.  If you do not find your
    files there, then double-check that you (a) added them, and (b)
    committed them.  A very common mistake is to forget to add the
    new files.
